.TH MANTA\-ADM 1 "2016" Manta "Manta Operator Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
manta\-adm \- administer a Manta deployment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm cn [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-H] [\-o FIELD...] [\-n] [\-s] CN_FILTER\fR
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm genconfig "lab" | "coal"\fR
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm show [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-a] [\-c] [\-H] [\-o FIELD...] [\-s] SERVICE\fR
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm show [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-js] SERVICE\fR
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm update [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-n] [\-y] [\-\-no\-reprovision] FILTER\fR
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm zk list [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-H] [\-o FIELD...]\fR
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm zk fixup [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-n] [\-y]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fB\fCmanta\-adm\fR command is used to administer various aspects of a Manta
deployment.  This command only operates on zones within the same datacenter.
The command may need to be repeated in other datacenters in order to execute it
across an entire Manta deployment.
.TP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm cn\fR
Show information about Manta servers in this DC.
.TP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm genconfig\fR
Generate a configuration for a COAL or lab deployment.
.TP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm show\fR
Show information about deployed services.
.TP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm update\fR
Update deployment to match a JSON configuration.
.TP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm zk\fR
View and modify ZooKeeper servers configuration.
.PP
With the exception of agents (which are not currently managed by this tool),
Manta components are deployed as SDC \fBzones\fP (also called \fBinstances\fP).
Each zone is part of a \fBservice\fP, which identifies its role in the system.
.PP
Services that are part of the Manta application include:
.TP
\fBauthcache\fP
Stores user identity information
.TP
\fBelectric\-moray\fP
Moray proxy that handles sharding using consistent hashing
.TP
\fBjobpuller\fP
Manages the archival of completed user compute jobs
.TP
\fBjobsupervisor\fP
Manages the execution of user compute jobs
.TP
\fBloadbalancer\fP
Handles SSL termination and loadbalancing for "webapi"
.TP
\fBmadtom\fP
Operational dashboard for component health
.TP
\fBmarlin\-dashboard\fP
Operational dashboard for job activity
.TP
\fBmarlin\fP
Zones used to execute end user compute tasks
.TP
\fBmedusa\fP
Manages end user interactive shell sessions
.TP
\fBmoray\fP
Key\-value store used to access PostgreSQL
.TP
\fBnameservice\fP
internal DNS nameservers and ZooKeeper nodes
.TP
\fBops\fP
Manages asynchronous operations like garbage collection, metering, and auditing
.TP
\fBpostgres\fP
PostgreSQL databases used for storing object and job metadata
.TP
\fBstorage\fP
Stores actual object data
.TP
\fBwebapi\fP
Handles end user API requests
.PP
These services are described in much more detail in the Manta Operator's Guide.
.PP
The SDC SAPI service stores configuration about the "manta" application, each of
the above services, and each instance of the above service.  The information
reported by this tool is derived from SDC's internal APIs, including SAPI (for
service configuration), CNAPI (for compute node information), VMAPI (for zone
information), NAPI (for network information), and IMGAPI (for image information)
services.
.PP
Many subcommands produce tabular output, with a header row, one data record per
line, and columns separated by whitespace.  With any of these commands, you can
use options:
.TP
\fB\fC\-H, \-\-omit\-header\fR
Do not print the header row.
.TP
\fB\fC\-o, \-\-columns FIELD[,FIELD...]\fR
Only print columns named \fB\fCFIELD\fR\&.  You can specify this option multiple times
or use comma\-separated field names (or both) to select multiple fields.  The
available field names vary by command and are described in the corresponding
command section above.  In general, the default set of field names for each
command is subject to change at any time.
.PP
Many commands also accept:
.TP
\fB\fC\-l, \-\-log_file LOGFILE\fR
Emit verbose log to LOGFILE.  The special string "stdout" causes output to be
emitted to the program's stdout.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "cn" subcommand
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm cn [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-H] [\-o FIELD...] [\-n] [\-s] [CN_FILTER]\fR
.PP
The \fB\fCmanta\-adm cn\fR subcommand is used to list SDC compute nodes being used in
the current Manta deployment in the current datacenter.  The default output is a
table with one row per compute node.  See above for information on the \fB\fC\-l\fR,
\fB\fC\-H\fR, and \fB\fC\-o\fR options.
.TP
\fB\fC\-n, \-\-oneachnode\fR
Instead of printing a table, emit a comma\-separated list of matching
hostnames, suitable for use with 
.BR sdc-oneachnode (1)'s 
\fB\fC\-n\fR option.  See also
.BR manta-oneach (1).
.TP
\fB\fC\-s, \-\-storage\-only\fR
Show only compute nodes with "storage" zones on them.
.PP
The optional \fB\fCCN_FILTER\fR string can be used to provide any substring of a
compute node's hostname, server uuid, administrative IP address, compute id, or
storage ids.  All matching compute nodes will be reported.
.PP
Available fields for the \fB\fC\-o/\-\-columns\fR option include "server_uuid", "host",
"dc" (the datacenter name), "admin_ip", "ram", "compute_id", "storage_ids",
and "kind" (which is either "storage" or "other").
.PP
Example: list basic info about all Manta CNs in this DC:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm cn
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: list info about Manta CN with server uuid matching 7432ffc8:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm cn 7432ffc8
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: list only storage nodes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm cn \-s
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: list only the hostnames (and omit the header):
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm cn \-H \-o host
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: list hostnames in form suitable for "sdc\-oneachnode \-n":
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm cn \-n
.fi
.RE
.SS "genconfig" subcommand
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm genconfig "lab" | "coal"\fR
.PP
The \fB\fCmanta\-adm genconfig\fR subcommand generates a JSON configuration file
suitable for use with \fB\fCmanta\-adm update\fR that deploys an appropriate set of
services for a single\-system Manta deployment.
.PP
The sole argument, \fB\fC"coal"\fR or \fB\fC"lab"\fR, determines the broad class of
deployment.  \fB\fC"coal"\fR produces a configuration suitable for a small,
VM\-in\-a\-laptop deployment, while \fB\fC"lab"\fR produces a configuration suitable for
a larger server install.  The images used for each service are the images
configured in SAPI, which are generally the last images downloaded by
.BR manta-init (1), 
so this command is sometimes used as a shortcut for identifying
the latest images that have been fetched for each service.
.SS "show" subcommand
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm show [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-a] [\-c] [\-H] [\-o FIELD...] [\-s] SERVICE\fR
.PP
\fB\fCmanta\-adm show [\-l LOG_FILE] [\-js] SERVICE\fR
.PP
The \fB\fCmanta\-adm show\fR subcommand reports information about deployed Manta
component zones.  The default output is a table with one row per deployed zone.
See above for information on the \fB\fC\-l\fR, \fB\fC\-H\fR, and \fB\fC\-o\fR options.
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-all\fR
Show zones deployed in all datacenters associated with this Manta deployment.
By default, only zones deployed in the current datacenter are shown.  Many
fields for zones deployed in other datacenters will not be available.
.TP
\fB\fC\-c, \-\-bycn\fR
Instead of showing tabular output with one row per zone sorted by service,
group zones by the compute node on which each zone is deployed.  With
\fB\fC\-a/\-\-all\fR, all compute zones in other datacenters are grouped together, since
compute node information is not available for remote datacenters.
.TP
\fB\fC\-s, \-\-summary\fR
Instead of showing tabular output with one row per zone, show tabular output
with one row per group of zones having the same "service", "image", and
"shard" properties (or just "image", for zones to which "shard" does not
logically apply).  The count for each group is also reported.  With
\fB\fC\-j/\-\-json\fR, the same information is presented in JSON form.
.TP
\fB\fC\-j, \-\-json\fR
Instead of the default text\-based output, emit a JSON representation of the
summary information reported with the \fB\fC\-s/\-\-summary\fR command.  This format is 
suitable for use with \fB\fCmanta\-adm update\fR\&.  This option cannot be combined with
\fB\fC\-c/\-\-bycn\fR, \fB\fC\-a/\-\-all\fR, \fB\fC\-H/\-\-omit\-header\fR, or \fB\fC\-o/\-\-columns\fR, and it \fImust\fP
be combined with \fB\fC\-s/\-\-summary\fR\&.  (Future versions of this command may support
a different JSON\-based report when \fB\fC\-j/\-\-json\fR is used without
\fB\fC\-s/\-\-summary\fR\&.)  For details on the JSON format, see \fB\fCmanta\-adm update\fR\&.
.PP
If \fB\fCSERVICE\fR is specified, then only zones whose service name is \fB\fCSERVICE\fR will
be reported.
.PP
Available fields for the \fB\fC\-o/\-\-columns\fR option include:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCdatacenter\fR: the name of the datacenter in which this zone is deployed
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCimage\fR: the uuid of the zone's image
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCprimary_ip\fR: the primary IP address for this zone
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCservice\fR: the name of the service this zone is part of
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCshard\fR: the metadata shard number for this zone.  This is only meaningful
for "moray" and "postgres" zones.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCstorage_id\fR: the internal storage id for this zone.  This is only present
for "storage" zones.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCzonename\fR: the full unique identifier for this zone
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCzoneabbr\fR: the first 8 characters of "zonename"
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCgz_host\fR: the hostname of the CN on which this zone is deployed
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCgz_admin_ip\fR: the primary IP address for the CN on which this zone is
deployed
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCcount\fR (summary mode only): the number of zones having the same "service",
"image", and "shard" fields (where meaningful)
.RE
.PP
Note that the "count" field is only meaningful when \fB\fC\-s/\-\-summarize\fR is
specified.  The only other fields that are meaningful when \fB\fC\-s/\-\-sumarize\fR is
specified are "service", "image", and "shard".
.PP
Example: list all Manta zones in the current DC
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm show
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: list zones in the current DC by compute node
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm show \-c
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: summarize Manta zones in the current DC
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm show \-s
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: list all Manta zones in all datacenters (no IP info available)
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm show \-a
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example: show only postgres zones in the current datacenter
.PP
.RS
.nf
# manta\-adm show postgres
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB\fC0\fR
Success
.TP
\fB\fC1\fR
Generic failure.
.TP
\fB\fC2\fR
The command\-line options were not valid.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2016 Joyent Inc.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR json (1), 
Manta Operator's Guide
